>> Ifill: THREE ADDITIONAL MEN,
TWO PICTURED HERE, WERE ARRESTED
IN CONNECTION WITH THE BOSTON
BOMBINGS, CHARGED WITH TRYING TO
HELP DZOKHAR TSARNAEV IN THE
DAYS AFTER THE FATAL BLASTS.
GOOD EVENING, I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF ON THE "NEWSHOUR"
TONIGHT.
WE GET THE LATEST ON THE CHARGES
AGAINST THE COLLEGE STUDENTS
SUSPECTED OF COVERING UP FOR THE
ALLEGED BOMBER AND OBSTRUCTING
JUSTICE.
>> Ifill: THEN, ON MAY DAY,
THOUSANDS OF EUROPEAN WORKERS
TAKE TO THE STREETS TO PROTEST
DRAMATIC GOVERNMENT SPENDING
CUTS.
WE DEBATE THE MERITS OF
AUSTERITY THERE AND IN THE U.S.
>> Woodruff: WELO OF GARMENT
MANUFACTURING, AS DEMONSTRATIONS
ACROSS ASIA CALLED FOR BETTER
WORKING CONDITIONS IN THE WAKE
OF THE FACTORY COLLAPSE IN
BANGLADESH THAT HAS NOW KILLED
MORE THAN 400 PEOPLE.
>> Ifill: SPENCER MICHELS HAS
THE STORY OF A CALIFORNIA OYSTER
FARM AND THE HIGH-STAKES BATTLE
OVER WHETHER TO KEEP IT OPEN.
>> THE REPERCUSSIONS EXTEND FAR
BEYOND THIS SPECTACULAR PACIFIC
COAST ENCLAVE TO THE RESTAURANTS
OF THE BAY AREA AND ALL THE WAY
TO WASHINGTON D.C., WHERE
POLITICIANS OF BOTH PARTIES ARE
JOINING IN THE FIGHT.
>> Woodruff: AND TWO YEARS AFTER
THE MANHUNT FOR OSAMA BIN LADEN
CAME TO AN END.
MARGARET WARNER TALKS TO TWO
WOMEN FROM THE C.I.A.'S
SISTERHOOD WHO HELPED TRACK DOWN
THE WORLD'S MOST WANTED
TERRORIST.
>> Ifill: THAT'S ALL AHEAD ON
TONIGHT'S "NEWSHOUR."
>> Ifill: THE BOSTON BOMBINGS
INVESTIGATION TOOK ANOTHER NEW
TURN TODAY WITH FEDERAL CHARGES
FILED AGAINST THREE COLLEGE
BUDDIES OF DZHOKHAR TSARNAEV.
THEY'RE ACCUSED OF TRYING TO GET
RID OF EVIDENCE OR LYING TO
INVESTIGATORS AFTER THE ATTACK.
TWO OF THE THREE ARE FROM
KAZAKHSTAN.
AZAMAT TAZHAYAKOV IS ON THE LEFT
AND DIAS KADYRBAYEV IS IN THE
CENTER IN THIS UNDATED PHOTO
WITH TSARNAEV, TAKEN IN NEW
YORK.
THE THIRD NEW SUSPECT WAS
IDENTIFIED AS ROBEL PHILLIPOS.
WE GET MORE NOW FROM DINA TEMPLE
RASTON OF NPR.
DINA TEMPLE RAFTON GIVE US A
SENSE OF WHAT WE KNOW ABOUT
THESE THREE.
>> WE KNOW TWO ARE FROM
KAZAKHSTAN AND ONE AMERICAN.
TWO THE KAZAHKSTAN STUDENTS WERE
ARRESTED 11 DAYS AGO.
THEY WERE ARRESTED ON
IMMIGRATION CHARGES.
AND OFFICIALLIES HAD SOME IDEA
THAT THEY MIGHT BE INVOLVED
SOMEHOW WITH THE MAIN SUSPECT IN
THE BOSTON BOMBING DZHOKAR
TSARNAEV, AND SO THEY BASICALLY
KEPT THEM ON THE IMMIGRATION
CHARGES UNTIL THEY COULD BUILD A
CASE THAT WOULD AT LEAST GIVE
THEM SOME IDEA OF WHAT ROLE THEY
MIGHT HAVE PLAYED.
IT'S IMPORTANT TOLL REALIZE THAT
THE ROLE THEY PLAYED WAS AFTER
THE BOMBING NOT BEFORE IT.
IT APPEARS WHAT THEY DID WAS
TRIED TO HELP THE
FRIEND.
>> Ifill: LET'S WALK THROUGH
THE EVENTS IN BOSTON.
IT SAID THEY INTENTIONALLY
OBSTRUCTED JUSTICE.
HOW DID THEY DO THAT ALLEGEDLY?
>> THERE ARE TWO THINGS WE THINK
HAPPENED ACCORDING TO THE
CRIMINAL COMPLAINT.
THE FIRST IS THAT WHEN THEY
FIRST SAW THE PHOTOGRAPHS THAT
WERE RELEASED OF THE SUSPECTS,
SUSPECT NUMBER TWO IS WHO
AUTHORITIES BELIEVE IS DZHOKAR
TSARNAEV, THE ONE WITH THE WHITE
HAT.
WHEN THEY FIRST SAW THAT PICTURE
THEY ACTUALLY TEXTED HIM AND
SAID, "HEY DUDE THAT LOOKS LIKE
YOU."
AND HE WROTE BACK "LOL."
WHEN THEY REALIZED IT WAS HIM
THEY WENT TO HIS DORM ROOM AND
FOUND A BACKPACK WITH FIREWORKS
EMPTIED OF THEIR POWDER AND
VASOLINE IN THE BACKPACK AND EYE
UNIVERSITY ASSIGNMENT.
THEY GRABBED THE BACKPACK AND
DECIDED THEY WOULD DISPOSE OF
IT.
IT SOAMED LIKE SOMETHING THEY
DID ON THE SPUR OF THE MOMENT.
IT WASN'T SOMETHING THEY REALLY
THOUGHT THROUGH.
>> Ifill: WHEN AUTHORITIES
BEGAN TO TALK TO THE YOUNG MEN,
THEY BEGAN TO UNCOVER A PATTERN
OF NOT ONLY OBSTRUCTION OF
JUSTICE BUT ALSO LYING AND
CONCEALMENT OF THEIR ROLE AFTER
THE FACT?
>> WELL, NOT EXACTLY.
ROBEL PHILLIPOS, THE THIRD
PERSON WHO WAS ARRESTED TAY,OD
THIS 19-YEAR-OLD STUDENT ALSO
FROM THIS UNIVERSITY, HE IS THE
ONLY ONE WHO IS BEING CHARGED
WITH LYING TO FEDERAL AGENTS.
HE IS NOT BEING CHARGED WITH
OBSTRUCTION OF JUSTICE.
APPARENTLY WHEN FEDERAL AGENTS
ASKED IF HE HAD HAD ANY CONTACT
WITH DZHOKAR TSARNAEV AFTER THE
BOMBING HE DENIED IT.
THEY ASKED HIM IF THEY'D GONE TO
THE DORM ROOM OR THE FRIENDS HAD
GONE AND HE DENIED THAT, TOO.
HE WAS BASICALLY CAUGHT IN A LIE
TO FEDERAL AGENTS.
>> Ifill: SO THE STORIES
CHANGED AS THE -- IN THE DAYS --
IT'S IMPORTANT TO REMEMBER THAT
THE TSARNAEV BROTHERS WERE AT
LARGE FOR FOUR DAYS AND DURING
THAT PERIOD OF TIME AUTHORITIES
WERE TALKING TO THE YOUNG MEN
AND WE ASSUME OTHERS?
>> YES, EXACTLY.
THESE YOUNG MEN, THE OTHER THING
THAT WAS INTERESTING THAT THEY
MENTIONED IN THE CRIMINAL
COMPLAINT THAT ONE OF THE YOUNG
MEN WENT TO THE DORMITORY TO
MEET DZHOKAR TSARNAEV DAY
AFGHANISTAN THE BOMBING, TWO
DAYS AFTER THE BOMBING HE HAD
GIVEN HIMSELF A SHORT HAIRCUT
AND HE MENTIONED THAT TO F.B.I.
AGENTS.
>> Ifill: HOW DID THEY GET
INTO HIS ROOM.
THIS IS HIS DORM ROOM AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS AT
DARTMOUTH AND HIS ROOMMATE LET
THEM HIM?
DZHOKHAR WASN'T THERE HIMSELF?
>> THAT'S WHAT WE UNDERSTAND.
WHEN THEY TOOK THE BACKPACK OUT.
HE WAS NOT THERE THE SECOND TIME
THEY WENT.
THE ROOMMATE LET THEM IN.
ACCORDING TO THE CRIMINAL
COMPLAINT THEY TOOK THE BACK
THEREPACK AND LAPTOP -- THEY
TOOK THE BACKPACK AND THEY TOOK
THE LAPTOP AS WELL BECAUSE THEY
DIDN'T WANT TO ROUSE ANY
SUSPICION FROM THE ROOMMATE BY
JUST TAKING THE BACKPACK.
THEY FOUND THE BACKPACK WITH THE
FIREWORKS WITHOUT THE POWDER BUT
THEY DIDN'T FIND THE LAPTOP.
IN FACT THAT WAS WHY THEY HAD
GONE TO THE LANDFILL TO FIND IT
PRESUMABLY IT'S NOT MENTIONED
EXACTLY IN THE COMPLAINT BUT
PRESUMABLY THE STUDENTS HUNG ON
TO THE LAPTOP AND THAT'S
SOMETHING AUTHORITIES HAVE NOW.
THAT'S IMPORTANT BECAUSE IT
GIVES THEM AN ABILITY TO TAKE A
LOOK AT WHAT DZHOKHAR TSARNAEV
WAS DOING BEFORE THE BOMBING
BECAUSE THEY CAN MIRROR THAT
HARDDRIVE.
>> Ifill: DO WE HAVE ANY IDEA
OF HISTORY OF THESE YOUNG CNN
HOW LONG THEY'VE KNOWN EACH
OTHER AND HOE CLOSE -- HOW CLOSE
FRIENDS THEY ARE?
>> IT SEEMS THEY WERE VERY CLOSE
FRIENDS.
HE SPENT A LOT OF TIME IN THE
APARTMENT OF KAZAHK STUDENTS.
IT SEEMS THEY CAME TOGETHER OVER
THE LAST COUPLE OF YEARS AS
FOREIGN STUDENTS OFTEN DO WHEN
THEY ARE TOGETHER IN THE COLLEGE
ENVIRONMENT.
I DON'T THINK ANYBODY
NECESSARILY THINKS THERE'S
ANYTHING PARTICULARLY NEFARIOUS
ABOUT THEIR FRIENDSHIP.
ONE OF KAZAHK STUDENTS HAD GONE
TO KAZAHKSTAN IN DECEMBER AND
HAD COME BACK AND THERE'S SOME
QUESTION ABOUT WHETHER OR NOT
THERE WAS SOMETHING SUSPICIOUS
ABOUT THAT?
A LOT OF FOREIGN STUDENTS GO
BACK HOME FOR THE CHRISTMAS
HOLIDAY.
THERE HASN'T BEEN ANY REAL
SUGGESTION THAT IT'S A PROBLEM.
WHAT IS INTERESTING ABOUT THE
VISA VIOLATIONS IS APPARENTLY
PART OF WHAT WAS GOING ON IS
THAT THE KIDS DIDN'T ATTEND
CLASS MUCH.
BUT, YOU KNOW, THERE ARE A LOT
OF COLLEGE STUDENTS WHO DO THAT.
>> Ifill: THAT CAN BE USED AS
A PRETEXT TO HOLD YOU.
TO BE CLEAR THEY ARE NOT CHARGED
WITH COMPLICITY WITH THE BOMBING
IT IS.
WHAT THERL CHARGED WITH, HOW
STIFF IS THE POTENTIAL PENALTY?
>> THEY ARE GET YEARS IN PRISON
FOR THIS.
BUT I THINK WHAT IS IMPORTANT
HERE IS THAT WE'VE UNDERSTOOD
FROM OFFICIALS THAT THEY ARE
FOLLOWING AS MANY -- TRACKING AS
MANY AS A DOZEN PEOPLE WHO MIGHT
HAVE SOMETHING TO DO WITH THIS
CASE.
WHAT THESE ARRESTS TODAY SHED
LIGHT ON IS NOT WHAT HAPPENED
BEFORE THE BOMBING WHICH IS WHAT
THEY ARE REALLY INTERESTED IN.
HOW DID THEY MAKE THE BOMBS?
DID THEY TEST THE BOMBS?
DID SOMEONE HELP THEM PUT
TOGETHER THE PLOT?
WHAT THIS SHEDS LIGHT ON IS WHAT
HAPPENED AFTERWARDS THEY HAVE
MORE EVIDENCE ON THAT THAN
BEFORE HAND.
>>
>> Ifill: IT'S FAIR TO SAY THE
HUNT IS UNDERWAY.
>> THERE'S MORE TO COME.
>> Ifill: DINA THEMEL RASTON
THANKS SO MUCH.
>> YOUR VERY WELCOME.
>> odruWoff: STILL TO COME ON
THE "NEWSHOUR": THE DEBATE OVER
AUSTERITY AT HOME AND ABROAD;
THE GLOBAL NETWORK BEHIND CHEAP
CLOTHING; THE FIGHT OVER OYSTER
FARMING AND THE "SISTERHOOD"
BEHIND THE "MANHUNT" FOR OSAMA
BIN LADEN.
BUT FIRST, THE OTHER NEWS OF THE
DAY.
HERE'SARI  HSREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: A WAVE OF
BOMBINGS ACROSS IRAQ KILLED AT
LEAST 15 PEOPLE TODAY.
DOZENS MORE WERE WOUNDED.
THE DEADLIEST INCIDENT TOOK
PLACE EAST OF FALLUJAH.
A SUICIDE BOMBER TARGETED
SIX PEOPLE DIED THERE.
THE ATTACKS CONTINUED A SURGE OF
SECTARIAN VIOLENCE THAT ERUPTED
IN LATE APRIL.
IN ECONOMIC NEWS, THE FEDERAL
RESERVE WARNED THERE'S EVIDENCE
THAT BUDGET CUTS AND THE
RESUMPTION OF HIGHER SOCIAL
SECURITY TAXES ARE RESTRAINING
GROWTH.
IT SAID IT WILL CONTINUE ITS
STIMULUS MEASURES FOR NOW.
THE FED STATEMENT HELPED DRAG
WALL STREET LOWER.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
LOST NEARLY 139 POINTS TO CLOSE
BELOW 14,701.
THE NASDAQ FELL 29 POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 3,299.
APRIL WAS A GOOD MONTH FOR CAR
AND TRUCK SALES-- THE BEST IN
SIX YEARS, IN FACT.
FORD'S U.S. SALES ROSE 18%,
WHILE BOTH CHRYSLER AND GENERAL
MOTORS SAW AN 11% INCREASE.
A REBOUND IN PICKUP TRUCK SALES
LED THE WAY FOR THE DETROIT
AUTO-MAKERS, PARTLY DUE TO
RISING DEMAND FROM HOME BUILDERS
AND OTHER BUSINESSES.
PRESIDENT OBAMA TODAY NOMINATED
A NEW OVERSEER FOR TWO MORTGAGE
LENDING GIANTS AND A NEW CHIEF
REGULATOR OF THE
TELECOMMUNICATIONS INDUSTRY.
NORTH CAROLINA DEMOCRATIC
CONGRESSMAN MELVIN WATT WAS THE
CHOICE TO LEAD THE FEDERAL
HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY, WHICH
GOVERNS MORTGAGE GIANTS FANNIE
MAE AND FREDDIE MAC.
TOM WHEELER, A FORMER CABLE AND
WIRELESS INDUSTRY LOBBYIST, WAS
SELECTED TO HEAD THE FEDERAL
COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION.
THE PRESIDENT ANNOUNCED THE
NOMINATIONS AT A WHITE HOUSE
CEREMONY WITH BOTH MEN BY HIS
SIDE.
>> MEL HAS LED EFFORTS TO REIN
IN UNSCPULORUUS MORTGAGE
LENDERS.
HE HAS HELPED PROTECT CONSUMERS
FROM THE RECKLESS RISK TAKING
THAT LED TO THE FINANCIAL CRISIS
IN THE FIRST PLACE AND HE HAS
FOUGHT TO GIVE MORE AMERICANS IN
LOW-INCOME NEIGHBORHOODS ACCESS
TO AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
FOR MORE THAN 30 YEARS, TOM HAS
BEEN AT THE FOREFRONT OF CHANGES
WE'VE SEEN IN THE WAY WE
COMMUNICATE AND HOW WE LIVE OUR
LIVES.
HE WAS ONE OF THE LEADERS OF A
COMPANY THAT CREATED GOOD HIGH
PAYING JOBS.
>> Sreenivasan: THE TWO
NOMINATIONS ARE SUBJECT TO
SENATE CONFIRMATION.
32 MENTALLY DISABLED MEN IN IOWA
WON A JURY AWARD OF $240 MILLION
TODAY FROM A DEFUNCT TEXAS FIRM.
STARTING IN THE 1970s, THE MEN
WORKED AT A TURKEY PROCESSING
PLANT.
INVESTIGATORS TESTIFIED THEY
WERE HELD IN VIRTUAL
ENSLAVEMENT-- HOUSED IN A
TUMBLE-DOWN, RAT-INFESTED
BUNKHOUSE AND PAID JUST $65 A
MONTH.
THE CONDITIONS WERE DISCOVERED
IN A 2009 INSPECTION.
A VETERAN CONGRESSMAN AND A
FORMER NAVY SEAL WILL FACE EACH
OTHER IN THE RACE FOR A U.S.
SENATE SEAT IN MASSACHUSETTS.
REPRESENTATIVE ED MARKEY WON THE
DEMOCRATIC NOMINATION IN
YESTERDAY'S PRIMARY, AND GABRIEL
GOMEZ WON A THREE-WAY REPUBLICAN
PRIMARY.
THEY ARE VYING R THFOE SENATE
SEAT VACATED BY JOHN KERRY, WHEN
HE BECAME SECRETARY OF STATE.
THE ELECTION WILL BE HELD EIGHT
WEEKS FROM NOW, ON JUNE 25.
THOSE ARE SOME OF THE DAY'S
MAJOR STORIES.
NOW, BACK TO JUDY.
>> Woodruff: AND WE TURN TO A
GROWING PUSHBACK AGAINST
ECONOMIC AUSTERITY MEASURES HERE
AND IN EUROPE.
THE DAY STARTED WITH SEVERAL BIG
PROTESTS ABROAD AS CITIZENS
COMPLAINED THEIR GOVERNMENTS ARE
CUTTING SPENDING TOO SEVERELY.
EUROPEAN CAPITALS FILLED WITH
MAY DAY CROWDS PROTESTING
AUSTERITY MEASURES THAT ARE
MEANT TO BRING DOWN SKY-HIGH
GOVERNMENT DEBT.
IN ATHENS, GREEK UNION WORKERS
WENT ON STRIKE AGAINST PROPOSED
LAYOFFS OF PUBLIC EMPLOYEES.
>> (translated): WE WILL
CONTINUE TO FIGHT TO OVERTURN
THIS UNFAIR AND DEAD-END POLICY
THAT IS DESTROYING MILLIONS OF
JOBS ON A NATIONAL AND EUROPEAN
LEVEL AND IS DRIVING LARGE
SWATHES OF SOCIETY TO POVERTY
AND DESTRUCTION.
>> Woodruff: IN MADRID,
SPANIARDS JOINED THE PROTESTS,
UNEMPLOYMENT IN SPAIN AND GREECE
NOW TOPS 27%.
AND FOR THE EURO-ZONE AS A
WHOLE, IT HIT A RECORD HIGH
12.1% IN MARCH.
THE HUMAN TOLL BEHIND THE DATA
ALSO FUELED RALLIES TODAY IN
BRITAIN, PORTUGAL AND FRANCE,
WITH TRADE UNIONS AND OTHERS
INSISTING THAT SPENDING CUTS AND
TAX HIKES HAVE KILLED ECONOMIC
GROWTH.
>> (translated): WE HAVE SEEN
THAT IN SPAIN, IN GREECE, IN
PORTUGAL, IN ITALY, THE
AUSTERITY POLICIES LAUNCHED BY
THESE GOVERNMENTS ARE LEADING
ONCE AGAIN TO A DEAD-END.
AND WHAT WE WANT IS PRECISELY TO
>> Woodruff: THE ARGUMENTS OVER
AUSTERITY AND DEBT ARE ECHOED IN
WASHINGTON'S DEBATES OVER BUDGET
CUTS.
A 2010 HARVARD STUDY, BY
ECONOMISTS KENNETH ROGOFF AND
CARMEN REINHART, CONCLUDED THAT
WHEN GOVERNMENT DEBT EXCEEDS 90%
OF THE GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT,
THE ECONOMY SHRINKS A TENTH OF A
PERCENT.
IT'S FREQUENTLY CITED BY
REPUBLICANS, INCLUDING HOUSE
BUDGET COMMITTEE CHAIR PAUL RYAN
AND UTAH SENATOR ORRIN HATCH.
>> WHILE ONE MIGHT QUIBBLE WITH
THE PARTICULARS OF REINHART'S
AND ROGOFF'S ASSESSMENT, FAILURE
TO TAKE IT SERIOUSLY, GIVEN THE
RECENT STRUGGLES OF THE
EUROZONE, AMOUNTS TO WHISTLING
PAST THE GRAVEYARD.
>> Woodruff: THIS MONTH,
RESEARCHERS AT THE UNIVERSITY OF
MASSACHUSETTS DID MORE THAN
QUIBBLE.
THEY CONCLUDED THAT ANNUAL
GROWTH ACTUALLY TOPS 2%, EVEN
WHEN GOVERNMENT DEBT IS HIGH.
AND, THEY CHARGED THE ROGOFF-
REINHART STUDY INCLUDED KEY
CALCULATION ERRORS AND OMITTED
IMPORTANT POST WORLD WAR II DATA
FROM OTHER COUNTRIES SUCH AS
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND.
THE FUROR BECAME FODDER FOR
COMEDIAN STEPHEN COLBERT.
>> OH PLEASE, IF IGNORING
AUSTRALIA, NEWEALA ZND AND
CADA WNAERE A CRIME EVERYONE IN
AMERICA WOULD BE ON DEATH ROW.
BUT COME ON, 2.2% UP, 0.1% DOWN.
YOU SAY PO
FOOD STAMPS.
>> Woodruff: REINHART AND ROGOFF
HAVE ACKNOWLEDGED SOME ERRORS,
BUT THEY SAY THEIR CONCLUSIONS
ARE SOUND, JUST THE SAME.
OTHER ECONOMISTS SAY MANDATORY
BUDGET CUTS, KNOWN AS THE
SEQUESTER, ARE AT LEAST PARTLY
TO BLAME FOR THE DISAPPOINTING
MARCH JOBS REPORT.
PRESIDENT OBAMA SAID AS MUCH
YESTERDAY.
>> IT'S SLOWED OUR GROWTH, IT'S
RESULTING IN PEOPLE BEING THROWN
OUT OF WORK, AND IT'S HURTING
FOLKS ALL ACROSS THE COUNTRY.
>> Woodruff: ANOTHER PICTURE OF
THE SEQUESTER'S EFFECTS ON
GROWTH MAY COME
FRIDAY, WHEN APRIL'S
UNEMPLOYMENT NUMBERS ARE
RELEASED.
THE FEDERAL RESERVE MADE IT
IN A STATEMENT ISSUED AFTER
THEIR REGULAR MEETING, FED
GOVERNORS WROTE CUTS IN
GOVERNMENT SPENDING ARE
RESTRAINING ECONOMIC GROWTH.
WE LOOK AT THE RENEWED DEBATE
SURROUNDING SPENDING AND
AUSTERITY.
ROBERT KUTTNER IS A FOUNDER AND
CO-EDITOR OF THE AMERICAN
PROSPECT MAGAZINE.
HE'S THE AUTHOR OF A NEW BOOK,
"DEBTORS' PRISON: THE POLITICS
OF AUSTERITY VERSUS
POSSIBILITY."
AND KEVIN HASSETT, AN ECONOMIST
WHO HAS WRITTEN PAPERS ON THIS
SUBJECT.
HE'S SERVED IN REPUBLICAN
ADMINISTRATIONS AND IS NOW A
IOR FELLOW AT THE AMERIC
ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE.
WELCOME TO YOU BOTH.
ROBERT KUTTNER TO YOU FIRST,
LET'S START WITH THE UNITED
STATES, WHAT ARE SOME EXAMPLES
OF POLICY RIGHT NOW IN THIS
COUNTRY THAT YOU BELIEVE ARE
HURTING ECONOMIC GROWTH?
>> WELL, WE HAD THE NEW YEAR'S
DEAL THAT PRESIDENT OBAMA MADE
WITH THE REPUBLICANS THAT WAS
SUPPOSED TO HEAD OFF THE SO
CALLED FISCAL CLIFF.
THAT TOOK ABOUT $200 BILLION OUT
OF ECONOMY.
WE RAISED SOCIAL SECURITY TAXES
TWO POINTS.
WE RAISED TAXES ON THE TOP 1%
AND TO COMPOUND THE DAMAGE WE
HAVE THE SEQUESTER WHICH WAS
EXECUTED IN MARCH.
THOSE TWO THINGS TOGETHER
ACCORDING TO THE CONGRESSIONAL
BUDGET OFFICE, WHICH SAY
BIPARTISAN OUTFIT, CUT THE
GROWTH RATE IN HALF THIS YEAR
FROM A PROJECTED 3% TO A
PROJECTED 1.5%.
IF YOU ARE IN A DEPRESSED
ECONOMY AND YOU REDUCE
PURCHASING POWER FURTHER YOU ARE
ONLY GOING TO MAKE THE ECONOMY
MORE DEPRESSED AND FAR FROM
GETTING CLOSER TO AN IMPROVEMENT
TO DEBT RATIO YOU ARE GOING TO
REDUCE THE G.D.P. RELATIVE TO
WHAT IT WOULD HAVE BEEN SO THE
DEBT RATIO IS GETTING WORSE.
WE'VE HAD A REALTIME EXPERIMENT
BOTH IN THE UNITED STATES AND IN
EUROPE IN THE FAILURE OF AWS
TEARITY -- AUSTERITY POLL AT
THISCIES -- POLICIES TO DIG OUT
OF HOLE THEY ARE IN.
>> Woodruff: KEVIN HASSETT, DO
YOU ACCEPT THESE NUMBERS?
>> HIS NUMBERS ARE ACCURATE.
THE 1.5% IS THE CBO ESTIMATE.
I DID MY OWN IN THE CAR OVER AND
IT WAS THE SAME.
WE HAVE TO THINK ABOUT WHAT IS
GOING ON IN EUROPE AND THE
UNREST AND PUT IT IN A LONGER
TERM PERSPECTIVE TO UNDERSTAND
WHERE WE ARE AND WHAT POLICY
DECISIONS WE HAVE TO MAKE.
BEFORE THE CRISIS THE GOVERNMENT
SPENDING G.D.P. WAS ABOUT 39%
BECAUSE OF EXPANSION POLICIES
AND BIMENT-IN STABILIZERS LIKE
HAVING TO PAY MORE UNEMPLOYMENT
FOR FOLKS AND SO ON IT JUMPED
UP.
>> Woodruff: YOU ARE SAYING
IT'S JUMPED UP?
>> IT'S GONE FROM 44.5 TO 4 5.2%
SO IT'S HIS RISEN BUT YOU RUN
OUT OF MONEY IF YOU KEEP DEFICIT
SPENDING UP.
GOVERNMENTS HAD TO RATCHET BACK
BECAUSE THEY HAD CANESSAN
POLICIES.
>> Woodruff: YOU ARE TRYING
TO -- FOLDING EUROPE INTO THE
CONVERSATION.
I WAS TRYING TO KEEP THEM
SEPARATE.
IT'S NOT POSSIBLE, I GUESS.
WHAT ABOUT THE FACT THAT THE
SPENDING WAS OUT OF CONTROL
BEFORE AND YES THERE'S BEEN
CUTBACKS BUT NOT VERY MUCH?
>> I REALLY WASN'T OUT OF
CONTROL, THE BIGGEST SINGLE
SOURCE OF INCREASED DEFICIT WAS
THE RECESSION AND LET'S NOT
FORGET WHAT CAUSED THE
RECESSION.
IT WASN'T GOVERNMENT SPENDING
BEING OUT OF CONTROL IT WAS A
FINANCIAL COLLAPSE MADE ON WALL
STREET.
IF YOU HAVE A FINANCIAL
COLLAPSE, THE GOVERNMENT
COLLECTS LESS REVENUE AND SPENDS
A LITTLE BIT MORE ON THINGS LIKE
UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION AND
FOOD STAMPS AND SO THE DEFICIT
GOES UP.
BUT IT DOESN'T LOGICALLY FOLLOW
THAT YOU CAN GET A RECOVERY
GOING BY CUTTING THE DEFICIT.
THE ONLY THING KEEPING THE
ECONOMY AFLOAT GIVEN THE
WEAKNESS OF WAGES AND SALARIES
AND PRIVATE DEMAND AND
INVESTMENT, WHAT IS KEEPING IT
AFLOAT IS DEFICIT SPENDING,
PUBLIC SPENDING.
AND SO THE TIME TO GET THE
DEFICIT UNDER CONTROL IS WHEN
THE ECONOMY IS BOMBING.
IT'S NOT WHEN THE ECONOMY IS IN
A DITCH AND THAT'S WHY THESE
POLICIES DON'T WORK.
>> Woodruff: WHAT ABOUT THAT?
THAT IS PART OF WHAT THE FEDERAL
RESERVE SAID TODAY?
>> THE PROBLEM IS THAT A
CANESIAN POLICY IS PERFECT YOU
LOOK AT THE HISTORIC RECESSION
THAT LASTED 11 MONTHS AND GREW
6.5% THE YEAR AFTER.
IF WE COULD TAKE THE GOVERNMENT
SPENDING FROM THE 6.5% YEAR AND
MOVE IT TO THE YEAR WITH A
RECESSION IT'S A GOOD IDEA BUT
THE PROBLEM IS WE'RE IN A PERIOD
OF SLOW GROWTH AND TRYING TO
BUILD A GOVERNMENT SPENDING
BRIDGE TO WHEN WE'RE GROWING
STRONGER.
THE OTHER EVIDENCE FROM A
DIFFERENT STUDY IS THAT IT
USUALLY TAKES A DECADE TO
RECOVER FROM A FINANCIAL CRISIS.
SPENDING OUR WAY OUT OF THAT IS
A REALLY, REALLY HARD THING TO
DO.
AND GOVERNMENTS HAVEN'T BEEN
ABLE TO SUSTAIN IT AND THAT'S
WHY ACROSS THE INDUSTRIALIZED
WORLD SERVE CUT CUTTING -- EVERY
IS CUTTING BACK ON SPENDING.
>> Woodruff: ROBERT KUTTNER
YOU ARE SHAKING YOUR HEAD.
>> IT TAKES A DECADE TO GET OUT
A CRISIS OR A YEAR OR TWO
DEPENDING ON WHAT THE GOVERNMENT
DOES.
IF YOU PUT THE ECONOMY IN A
DEBTOR'S PRISON IT TAKES THREE
TIMES AS LONG.
THE REASON I SAY THAT IS YOU
RUIN PEOPLE'S ABILITY TO EARN A
LIVING AND THEY CAN'T HELP
THEMSELVES AND CREDITORS.
THERE'S A TERRIBLE DOUBLE
STANDARD IN DEBT.
A CORPORATION CAN GET OUT FROM
UNDER DEBT BY DECLARING CHAPTER
11.
A STUDENT DEBT CARRIES THAT
STUDENT TO HIS OR HER GRAVE.
IF A PARENT COSIGNS A LINE AND
THE STUDENT DIES, THE PARENT IS
STILL RESPONSIBLE.
WE HAVE A TRILLION DOLLARS OF
STUDENT DEBT.
WHAT A GIFT TO GIVE THE NEXT
GENERATION.
MORTGAGE HOLDERS CAN'T DECLARE
CHAPTER 11 BUT CORPORATIONS CAN.
THERE ARE HUGE DOUBLE STANDARDS
HERE.
AND EUROPE JUST DEMONSTRATES
THAT YOU CAN'T DEFLATE YOUR WAY
TO RECOVERY.
THE WAY TO GET THE DEBT RATIO
DOWN IS TO GET A RECOVERY GOING.
WORLD WORE II IS HISTORY'S GREAT
EXAMPLE.
WE WENT FROM 12% UNEMPLOYMENT TO
0% IN THE COURSE OF SIX MONTHS
BECAUSE OF GOVERNMENT SPENT
SERIOUS MONEY.
THE WHOLE VIEW THAT WE'LL
TIGHTEN OUR BELTS AND THE
ECONOMY WILL RECOVER IS REFUTED
DAY BYruff: YOU NOT ONLY
KEVIN THAT THE BELT SHOULD BE
TIGHTENED YOU ARGUE FOR DEEPER
CUTS IN ENTITLEMENT PROGRAMS
LIKE SOCIAL SECURITY IN THIS
COUNTRY AND EQUIVALENT PROGRAMS
IN EUROPE.
>> THE ECONOMIST LANGE SWIG
FISCAL CONSOLIDATIONS AND IT
SUGGEST THAT'S A COUNTRY HAS A
BETTER LONG-TERM GROWTH
PROSPECTS IF IT GETS AHEAD OF
THE CURVE.
YOU WANT TO DO IT IN A MEASURED
WAY.
IF YOU LOOK AT EUROPEAN NATIONS,
FOR EXAMPLE, THEY'VE HAD A HECK
OF A LOT OF CONTRACTIONARY
FISCAL POLICY.
ROBERT WAS HERE TO MENTION THE
TAX INCREASES IN THE U.S.
THEY'VE HAD THAT THROUGHOUT
EUROPE AND FRONT LOADED THEM.
DON'T FORGET.
THE REASON THEY ARE DOING IT IS
THAT NOBODY REALLY WANTED TO
LEND TO GREECE BECAUSE THEIR
DEFICITS WERE SO LARGE, POLICIES
SO UNSUSTAINABLE THAT THE
COUNTRY LOOKED LIKE IT MIGHT GO
BANKRUPT WOONCH LET'S SEND BY
ASKING YOU BOTH WHAT NEEDS TO BE
DONE IN THE UNITED STATES IF YOU
COULD WF A MAGIC WAND AND HAVE
CONGRESS DO IT?
ROBERT?
>> I DON'T THINK YOU SHOULD HAVE
THE KIND OF GRAND BARGAIN THAT
PRESIDENT OBAMA IS TALKING ABOUT
WITH THE REPUBLICANS WHERE YOU
CUT SOCIAL SECURITY AND MEDICARE
AND IN EXCHANGE THE REPUBLICANS
AGREE TO RAISE TAXES AND YOU
HAVE TEN MORE YEARS OF
AUSTERITY.
I THINK IN THE NEXT YEAR OR TWO
UNTIL THE ECONOMY GETS BACK ON
ITS FEET, YOU NEED PUBLIC
SPENDING TO GET PEOPLE BACK TO
WORK, REBUILD THE INFRASTRUCTURE
AND MAKE IT MORE COMPETITIVE AND
WHEN YOU GET BACK TO SOMETHING
CLOSE TO FULL EMPLOYMENT, PEOPLE
HAVE JOBS AND ARE PAYING TAXES,
THEN YOU CAN REDUCE THE DEBT
BECAUSE YOU HAVE A HIGHER GROWTH
RATE AND THE DEBT RATIO COMES
DOWN ON ITS OWN ACCORD.
THAT'S THE TIME TO REBALANCE.
>> Woodruff: WOULD THAT BE
YOUR REMEDY?
>> I THINK THE HEADLINE FOR
LISTENERS IS NOT WHAT I WANT BUT
WHAT HAS HAPPENED.
IF YOU LOOK AT THE CBO'S UNLESS
OF WHAT PRESIDENT OBAMA AND THE
REPUBLICANS HAVE AGREED TO AND
THEY STABILIZED THE DEBT AT A
REASONABLE LEVEL ABOUT THE
AVERAGE OF THE LAST 20 YEARS
RELATIVELY QUICKLY.
MY GUESS IS GIVEN THAT THERE'S A
LOT OF POSTURING IN WASHINGTON
BUT THEY ARE NOT GOING TO DO
MUCH MORE EITHER WAY.
THERE WON'T BE MORE TAX
INCREASES OR BIG SPENDING CUTS.
I THINK LISTENERS SHOULD KNOW
DESPITE THE RHETORIC THEY'VE
MADE PROGRESS ALREADY.
>> Woodruff: THE DEBATE, AND
IT IS A DEBATE, GOES ON.
KEVIN HASSETT, ROBERT KUTTNER,
THANK YOU BOTH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: THE DEATHS OF MORE
THAN 400 FACTORY WORKERS IN
BANGLADESH HUNG OVER "MAY DAY
"PROTESTS IN ASIA TODAY.
RAY SUAREZ REPORTS.
>> Suarez: DEMANDS FOR HIGHER
PAY AND BETTER WORKING
CONDITIONS BROUGHT OUT THOUSANDS
OF LOW-WAGE WORKERS ACROSS
SOUTHEAST ASIA.
THEY MARCHED IN INDONESIA,
CAMBODIA, THE PHILIPPINES, AND
ELSEWHERE.
>> (translated): FOR WAGES, WE
CALL ON THE NEW GOVERNMENT TO
INCREASE PAY
FOR ALL GARMENT WORKERS AND FOR
CIVILERVA SNTS, POLICE AND
MILITARY PERSONNEL OF AT LEAST
ONE MILLION RIELS.
>> (translated): THE CHANGE IN
THE ROTTEN SYSTEM PREVAILING IN
SOCIETY IS REALLY IN THE HANDS
OF THE WORKERS AND ORDINARY
PEOPLE.
>> Suarez: THIS YEAR, THE ANNUAL
"MAY DAY" RALLIES WERE FUELED BY
OUTRAGE OVER THE DEADLY COLLAPSE
OF AN EIGHT-STORY BUILDING IN
BANGLADESH.
THE ILLEGALLY-BUILT STRUCTURE
HOUSED SEVERAL GARMENT FACTORIES
THAT EMPLOYED THOUSANDS OF
WORKERS.
THE DEATH TOLL HAS NOW PASSED
400, BUT IT REMAINS UNCLEAR HOW
MANY ARE STILL MISSING.
TODAY, BANGLADESHIS FILLED THE
STREETS IN THE CAPITAL OF DHAKA,
CARRYING THE MEMORIES OF THOSE
LOST IN LAST WEEK'S TRAGEDY.
>> (translated): THE WORKERS
WHO WERE KILLED IN THE BUILDING
COLLAPSE, WE PROTEST AND WE
DEMAND THAT THE OWNER OF THE
BUILDING MUST BE GIVEN CAPITAL
PUNISHMENT.
HE SHOULD BE HANGED AND
COMPENSATION SHOULD BE GIVEN TO
THE INJURED AND THOSE WHO DIED.
A HEALTHY AND SAFE ATMOSPHERE
SHOULD BE MADE IN THE FACTORIES.
>> Suarez: OFFICIALS ALSO BEGAN
BURYING DOZENS OF VICTIMS WHO
COULD NOT BE IDENTIFIED.
HUNDREDS ATTENDED THE MASS
FUNERAL AND BURIAL, MANY
COVERING THEIR NOSES TO COMBAT
THE SMELL OF THE DECOMPOSING
BODIES.
MORE MASS BURIALS ARE EXPECTED
IN THE COMING DAYS.
AT THE BUILDING SITE, HEAVY
MACHINERY HAS BEEN BROUGHT IN TO
REMOVE THE MANY TONS OF RUBBLE
T.
FINDING ANY MORE SURVIVORS; THE
FOCUS NOW IS ON RECOVERING THE
DEAD.
MEANWHILE, THE BUILDING OWNER IS
IN CUSTODY.
HE LEFT A COURT YESTERDAY
WEARING A POLICE HELMET AND
BULLETPROOF VEST, FOLLOWING HIS
SECOND APPEARANCE IN AS MANY
DAYS.
HE'S ONE OF EIGHT PEOPLE
ARRESTED THUS FAR.
FOR MORE ON WORKING CONDITIONS
IN THE DEVELOPING WORLD I'M
JOINED BY PIETRA RIVOLI, AN
EXPERT ON THE GLOBALIZATION OF
CLOTHING MANUFACTURING AND A
PROFESSOR OF FINANCE AND
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS AT
GEORGETOWN'S McDONOUGH SCHOOL OF
BUSINESS.
AND DAVID VON DREHLE IS A
JOURNALIST FOR TIME MAGAZINE, HE
WROTE "TRIANGLE, THE FIRE THAT
CHANGED AMERICA," A BOOK ABOUT
THIS COUNTRY'S RESPONSE TO ITS
OWN FACTORY DISASTER.
PROFESSOR RIVOLI AS WE SAW THERE
WERE MARCHS THROUGHOUT SOUTH
ASIA.
IS THIS WORK GENERALLY BADLY
PAID AND DANGEROUS?
>> WELL, I DON'T THINK WE CAN
MAKE A GENERAL CONCLUSION ABOUT
THAT.
THERE ARE GOOD FACTORIES, THERE
ARE GOOD CONDITIONS.
THERE ARE SAFE FACTORIES, AND WE
HAVE EXPERIENCE THOUGH AT THE
OTHER END OF SPECTRUM AS WELL.
OF COURSE, WHAT HAPPENED LAST
WEEK WAS AN EXAMPLE OF
CONDITIONS AT THE VERY BOTTOM.
>> SUAREZ: WHAT HAS CHANGED
ABOUT THE RULES GOVERNING GLOBAL
TRADE?
HOW DID BANGLADESH END UP THE
HOME OF THE GARMENT
INDUSTRY'S -- IT'S THE SECRETARY
LARGEST GARMENT INDUSTRY IN THE
WORLD?
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
IN 2005, WE DID AWAY WITH A
SYSTEM OF APPAREL TRADE
REGULATION IN THE UNITED STATES
THAT VERY TIGHTLY MANAGED
APPAREL IMPORTS INTO THE
COUNTRY.
SO WE DIDN'T HAVE A FREE MARKET
AT THAT TIME.
INSTEAD DIFFERENT COUNTRIES WERE
ALLOWED TO SELL DIFFERENT
QUANTITIES OF CLOTHING TO THE
UNITED STATES.
WHEN THOSE REGULATIONS WERE
LIFTED, WE WENT TO APURE MARKET
SYSTEM -- A PURE MARKET SYSTEM.
MOST FLOWED TO CHINA BUT HOWEVER
IN THE LAST COUPLE OF YEARS WAGE
RATES IN CHINA HAVE SHOT UP IN
THE APPAREL INDUSTRY.
THEY'VE DOUBLED AND IN SOME
AREAS EVEN TRIPLED, SO THE
PRODUCTION HAS MOVED TO LOWER
COST AREAS SUCH AS BANGLADESH.
SO WHAT HAPPENED REALLY IS YOU
HAVE A TREMENDOUSLY RAPID FLOW
OF PRODUCTION FROM ONE COUNTRY
TO ANOTHER AND CERTAINLY THE
INFRASTRUCTURE, THE SAFETY
INFRASTRUCTURE, THE CONSTRUCTION
INFRASTRUCTURE, THE CODES OF
CONDUCT AND SO FORTH THEY ARE
SCRAMBLING TO KEEP UP.
>> SUAREZ: DAVID VON DREHLE
WE'RE A LITTLE CENTURY AWAY FROM
THE TRY ANGLE FACTORY FIRE.
100 PEOPLE DIED, MOSTLY YOUNG
WOMEN DIED IN ONE AFTERNOON.
IS THERE A ROUGH PARALLEL
BETWEEN PLACES IN BANGLADESH AND
CAMBODIA TODAY WITH WHAT WAS
GOING ON IN MANHATTAN IN 1911?
>> ABSOLUTELY, RAY.
THE GUEST MADE A VERY GOOD POINT
AND USED TERRIFIC LANGUAGE WHEN
SHE TALKED ABOUT A RUNAWAY
INDUSTRY WITH THE GOVERNMENT
REGULATORS SORT OF TRYING TO
CATCH UP TO THEM.
THAT'S EXACTLY WHAT HAPPENED IN
THE UNITED STATES AT THE TURN OF
THE CENTURY WHEN THE READY TO
WEAR GARMENT INDUSTRY
MADE-TO-MEASURE GARMENT INDUSTRY
TOOK OFF LIKE A LIGHTNING BOLT.
SUDDENLY WE HAD FACTORIES
THROUGHOUT NEW YORK,
PHILADELPHIA, CHICAGO THAT WERE
CHURNING OUT MILLIONS OF DOLLARS
WORTH OF CLOTHING AND THE
GOVERNMENTS WERE IN THE PREPARED
TO DEAL WITH THESE NEW
REALITIES.
YOU HAD NOT JUST THE TRIANGLE
FIRE, THE MOST FAMOUS, BUT THESE
KIND OF FACTORY DISASTERS
FREQUENTLY HAPPENING.
WHAT I FOUND AS I STUDIED THE
TRIANGLE FIRE, WHICH WAS A
CATALYST FOR CHANGE S THAT THE
REAL DRIVER IS NOT SYMPATHY OR
OUTRAGE AT THESE TERRIBLE
ARE DEFINITELY
TRAGIC, BUT THE RISING POWER OF
THE WORKERS, MORE EDUCATION FORY
FOR WOMEN IN THE WORKPLACE.
AND AS THEY MAKE -- AND MORE
ENFRANCHISEMENT, OPPORTUNITY TO
VOTE.
THESE ARE THE FACTORS THAT DRIVE
OUT CORRUPTION AND BRING ON IN
ITS PLACE A RESPECT FOR THE
LIVES OF THE HUMAN BEINGS WHO DO
THE WORK.
>> SUAREZ: PROFESSOR GIVEN WHAT
DAVID VON DREHLE JUST DESCRIBED,
THESE ARE YOUNG DEMOCRACIES
WHERE WE SAW THE MARCHS GOING ON
DAY.TO
COULD THIS BE A SIMILAR
GALVANIZING MOMENT?
>> YOU KNOW, I THINK THAT THE
SHIRT WAIST FIRE WAS CERTAINLY A
TIPPING POINT IN THE U.S.
.NDUSTRIAL HISTORY
AND IS THERE ARE TIPPING POINTS
ALL ACROSS THE WORLD IN
INDUSTRIAL HIM.
I THINK IT'S QUITE POSSIBLE THAT
THIS EVENT LAST WEEK WILL SERVE
AS A TIPPING POINT.
BUT THERE ARE ENORMOUS
CHALLENGES IN THE POLITICAL
INFRASTRUCTURE OF BANGLADESH.
IF YOU LOOK AT WHY THAT BUILDING
WAS EVER EVEN BUILT THE WAY IT
WAS, YOU KNOW, THE ROOT CAUSES
HAVE TO DO WITH CORRUPTION AT
THE LOCAL LEVEL, WITH SYSTEMS OF
GRAFT.
YOU HAVE JUST KIND OF MOB BOSSES
IN CHARGE AT THE LOCAL POLITICAL
LEVEL.
SO THERE'S A TREMENDOUS AMOUNT
OF CLEANING UP OF THE POLITICAL
INFRASTRUCTURE THAT NEEDS TO
HAPPEN BEFORE PEOPLE'S POLITICAL
VOICES CAN BE EFFECTIVE.
>> SUAREZ: DAVID, IS THERE ALSO
A RISK HERE FOR THE WORKERS IF
THINGS ARE TIGHTENED UP?
IF THERE ARE BETTER CONDITIONS
IN THE FACTORIES?
IF WAGES ARE RAISED?
THERE A CHANCE THAT YOU ARE
TAKING THAT INTERNATIONAL
PRODUCERS WILL HEAD TO EVEN
LOWER-COST PLACES, IF YOU CAN
FIND THEM LEFT ON PLANET EARTH?
>> THIS IS THE GREAT PARADOX OF
THE MORE DEVELOPED ECONOMIES
TRYING TO INFLUENCE THIS
PROCESS.
BECAUSE THE REASON THAT THERE
WERE SO MANY WORKERS IN THAT
FACTORY LABORING UNDER SUCH
APPALLING CONDITIONS IS THAT
THERE'S DESPERATE POVERTY IN
BANGLADESH.
AND THEY ARE ACTUALLY WORKING
THEIR WAY UP TO THOSE JOBS, IF
YOU CAN BELIEVE IT.
SAME WAS TRUE IN THE UNITED
STATES 100 YEARS AGO.
THOSE WORKERS IN THE TRIANGLE
FACTORY WERE THERE BECAUSE IT
WAS A GOOD JOB COMPARED TO THE
ALTERNATIVES.
WHAT WE HAVE TO FIND IN THE
UNITED STATES AND OTHER
DEVELOPED COUNTRIES IS WAYS TO
PRESSURE OUR RETAILERS, OUR
MANUFACTURERS, OUR BRANDS TO
ENGAGE, PERHAPS WITH THESE
ISSUES OF CORRUPTION THAT THE
PROFESSOR TALKED ABOUT WHICH IS
SO IMPORTANT.
WE WHO LIVE UNDER THE RULE OF
LAW TEND TO TAKE IT FOR GRANTED.
IT IS A HUGE ENGINE FOR OUR
SAFETY, OUR PROTECTION, OUR
ECONOMIC FREEDOM AND THAT'S WHAT
WE NEED TO BE EXPORTING TO THE
COUNTRIES ALONG WITH LOW-WAGE
JOBS.
>> SUAREZ: DAVID VON DREHLE,
PROFESSOR RIVOLI, THANK YOU
BOTH.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> Woodruff: IN NORTHERN
CALIFORNIA, THERE'S AN UNUSUAL
BATTLE BREWING OVER A RENOWNED
OYSTER FARM THAT'S LOCATED IN A
NATIONAL SEASHORE.
THE FIGHT IS PLAYING OUT AMONG
BUSINESS, GOVERNMENT AND SOME
ENVIRONMENTALISTS.
BUT IT'S ONE THAT'S CREATING
STRANGE BEDFELLOWS CONCERNED
ABOUT THE OUTCOME.
SPENCER MICHELS REPORTS.
>> Reporter: THE DRAKES BAY
OYSTER COMPANY AT POINT REYES
NATIONAL SEASHORE NORTH OF SAN
FRANCISCO MAY BE PRODUCING ITS
LAST CROP.
WHEN ITS LONG-TERM LEASE EXPIRED
LAST YEAR, THE DEPARTMENT OF THE
INTERIOR SAID THE LEASE WAS
TERMINATED, AND ORDERED THE
FAMILY-OWNED COMPANY TO STOP
PLANTING AND HARVESTING OYSTERS,
AS THE FARM HAS DONE SINCE THE
1930s.
AND THAT HAS PROVOKED A BATTLE
WITH AN UNLIKELY CAST OF
CHARACTERS.
THE REPERCUSSIONS EXTEND FAR
BEYOND THIS SPECTACULAR PACIFIC
COAST ENCLAVE TO THE RESTAURANTS
OF THE BAY AREA AND ALL THE WAY
TO WASHINGTON D.C., WHERE
POLITICIANS OF BOTH PARTIES ARE
JOINING IN THE FIGHT.
MUCH OF THE AREA IN THE NATIONAL
SEASHORE HAS BEEN DESIGNATED
WILDERNESS, AND THE THEN
SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR HAS
SAID THE OYSTER FARM DOESN'T FIT
IN A WILDERNESS AREA, SINCE IT'S
A COMMERCIAL OPERATION.
SO HE ORDERED IT CLOSED IN
MARCH.
THE COMPANY SUED TO STOP ITS
EVICTION, AND A FEDERAL COURT
HAS ALLOWED OPERATIONS TO
CONTINUE WHILE IT CONSIDERS THE
CASE.
>> THIS LEASE HAS AN EXPLICIT
RENEWAL CLAUSE.
IT WAS ALWAYS ANTICIPATED THAT
IT COULD BE RENEWED BY SPECIAL
USE PERMIT.
IT SAYS IT RIGHT IN THE ORIGINAL
DOCUMENT.
>> Reporter: KEVIN LUNNY IS THE
PRINCIPAL PLAYER: A LONGTIME
RANCHER, ONE OF THE OWNERS OF
THE DRAKES'S BAY OYSTER COMPANY.
ITS 30 EMPLOYEES PLANT AND
HARVEST SIX TO EIGHT MILLION
OYSTERS A YEAR FROM THE WATERS
OF DRAKE'S ESTERO-- AN INLET
FROM THE OCEAN.
HE BOUGHT THE OYSTER OPERATION
SEVEN YEARS AGO, KNOWING THAT
HIS LEASE WOULD EXPIRE IN 2012.
BUT HE TRIED TO CHANGE THAT.
>> THIS IS EXACTLY WHAT WAS
PLANNED FOR THE SEASHORE.
THE OYSTER FARM IS PART OF THE
WORKING LANDSCAPE, IT'S PART OF
THE AGRICULTURE.
IT'S REALLY PART OF THE HISTORY,
PART OF THE CULTURE THAT WAS
ALWAYS EXPECTED TO BE PRESERVED.
>> Reporter: LOCAL AND NATIONAL
ENVIRONMENTAL GROUPS HAVE JOINED
THE FREY.
THEY SAY A LEASE IS A LEASE AND
THAT A LARGER PRINCIPLE IS
INVOLVED.
AMY TRAINER IS HEADS ONE
ORGANIZATION.
>> UNDER THE 1964 WILDERNESS
ACT, COMMERCIAL OPERATIONS AND
MOTORBOATS ARE NOT ALLOWED.
THEY'RE EXPRESSLY PROHIBITED SO
THIS OPERATION IS WHOLY
INCOMPATIBLE WITH THIS NATIONAL
PARK WILDERNESS AREA.
THIS IS A VERY DANGEROUS
PRECEDENT.
DRAKES ESTERO IS CONSIDERED THE
ECOLOGICAL HEART OF THE NATIONAL
SEASHORE, AND IT ABSOLUTELY
SHOULD BE PROTECTED FOR FUTURE
GENERATIONS WITHOUT COMMERCIAL
USES.
>> Reporter: IN FACT, ALL THE
PLAYERS AGREE: POINT REYES IS A
UNIQUE AND GORGEOUS LAND OF TULE
ELK, HIKING TRAILS, ELEPHANT AND
HARBOR SEALS, WILDFLOWERS,
GRASS-COVERED HILLS AND A FEW
CATTLE RANCHES THAT PRE-DATE THE
SEASHORE AND REMAIN IN PLACE
UNDER THE LAW.
THIS SPARSELY POPULATED  AREA
BECAME PART OF THE NATIONAL PARK
SYSTEM IN 1962, AND TODAY TWO
AND A HALF MILLION PEOPLE VISIT
A YEAR.
BUT WHAT APPEARED TO BE
PRIMARILY A LOCAL DISPUTE, HAS
BECOME A CONSERVATIVE CAUSE
3,000 MILES AWAY IN WASHINGTON.
CRITICS SEE GOVERNMENT AS
TRAMPLING ON ECONOMIC FREEDOM.
A NATIONAL ADVOCACY GROUP CALLED
CAUSE OF ACTION, A GOVERNMENT
WATCHDOG, HAS TAKEN ON LUNNY'S
CASE.
DAN EPSTEIN, AN ATTORNEY WHO
ONCE WORKED FOR A FOUNDATION RUN
BY ONE OF THE CONSERVATIVE
ACTIVIST KOCH BROTHERS, IS THE
GROUP'S EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR.
>> WHAT WE'RE DOING WITH CASES
LIKE THE DRAKES BAY OYSTER
COMPANY IS TO EDUCATE THE PUBLIC
THAT WHEN YOU HAVE A FEDERALAT S
UNCHECKED, IT CAN LEAD TO
CERTAIN HARMS TO ECONOMIC
FREEDOM.
>> Reporter: EPSTEIN SAYS THE
SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR'S
DECISION TO CLOSE THE OPERATION
SHOULD BE REVIEWED BY THE
COURTS.
>> IF AGENCIES ARE ABLE TO
EFFECTIVELY SHUT DOWN A
BUSINESS, JUST IN THE DISCRETION
OF THEIR POLICY AUTHORITY,
WITHOUT FOLLOWING CERTAIN LEGAL
PROCEDURES AND THE CONSTITUTION,
THAT'S GOING TO HAVE AN IMPACT
UPON SMALL BUSINESS OWNERS AND
INDIVIDUALS IN TERMS OF THEIR
ECONOMIC RIGHTS.
I THINK THIS SITUATION HAS BEEN
HIJACKED BY INTEREST GROUPS WITH
DIFFERENT AGENDAS, WHO HAVE SPUN
OUT NARRATIVES THAT HAVE NO
RELATIONSHIP TO THE FACTS.
>> Reporter: ANOTHER WASHINGTON
ATTORNEY, FORMER ASSISTANT
SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR TOM
STRICKLAND, HAS JOINED THE
BATTLE.
HE SAYS SHUTTING DOWN THE OYSTER
FARM WILL CLEAR THE WAY FOR
ESTABLISHING AN UNDERWATER
MARINE WILDERNESS AREA AT PT.
REYES, AND HE DEFENDS FORMER
SECRETARY KEN SALAZAR'S ACTION.
>> HE DETERMINED THAT THE PEOPLE
OF THE UNITED STATES HAD IN FACT
BOUGHT AND PAID FOR THAT OYSTER
FARM, HAD GIVEN THE THEN OWNER A
40 YEAR TERM.
WHEN THAT TERM EXPIRED THEN THAT
LAND AND THAT RIGHT WAS TO
RETURN TO THE PEOPLE.
AND THEN THAT AREA WILL BECOME
OUR FIRST MARINE WILDERNESS AREA
IN THE LOWER 48.
>> Reporter: THE CONTROVERSY HAS
SPLIT THE ENVIRONMENTAL
COMMUNITY, AND MADE STRANGE
BEDFELLOWS.
CALIFORNIA DEMOCRATIC SENATOR
DIANNE FEINSTEIN ASKED THAT
LUNNY'S LEASE BE EXTENDED 10
YEARS, CLAIMING THE PARK SERVICE
ACTED UNFAIRLY AND WITH BIAS.
A GROUP OF RESTAURANT OWNERS AND
SUSTAINABLE FOOD ADVOCATES,
INCLUDING ALICE WATERS OF CHEZ
PANISSE, ARE SUPPORTING LUNNY
AND HIS OYSTERS.
85-YEAR-OLD ENVIRONMENTAL
ACTIVIST PHYLLIS FABER IS NOW
FIGHTING AGAINST THE INTERIOR
DEPARTMENT AND ITS ALLIES.
>> THEY YEARN FOR WILDERNESS,
BUT DO YOU KNOW, THERE HASN'T
THE POINT REYES SEASHORE AREA
FOR PROBABLY 200 YEARS.
SO I LOOK AT THEM AS BEING SORT
OF BACKWARD LOOKING, YEARNING
FOR SOMETHING THAT CAN'T
POSSIBLY EXIST.
IT'S ALMOST LIKE A RELIGION.
>> Reporter: YET, SHE'S NOT
HAPPY TO BE ON THE SAME SIDE AS
CAUSE OF ACTION.
>> I AM VERY DISTURBED BY THAT,
AND I DON'T AGREE WITH IT AT
ALL.
WHAT I THINK WHAT THEY'RE HEADED
FOR IS TRYING TO USE A
COMMERCIAL OPERATION IN A PARK,
THEY WANT TO ESTABLISH THAT IN
OTHER PUBLIC ON OTHER PUBLIC
LANDS.
AND I THINK THAT'S TERRIBLY
UNFORTUNATE.
>> Reporter: ALL THIS
CONTROVERSY HAS OVERWHELMED THE
LITTLE MARIN COUNTY TOWN OF
POINT REYES STATION, WHERE LUNNY
AND HIS OYSTERS ARE POPULAR.
THE CONTROVERSY IS SO INTENSE
THAT MANY RESIDENTS WOULDN'T
COMMENT FOR FEAR OF ALIENATING
THEIR NEIGHBORS.
BUT A FEW DID RISK IT.
>> I DON'T CARE FOR OYSTERS
PERSONALLY TO EAT, BUT I THINK
THE OYSTER FARM IS A WONDERFUL
THING FOR OUR AREA.
THEY'RE GOOD FOR THE
ENVIRONMENT.
THEY CREATE A LOT OF JOBS.
THEY'RE WONDERFUL PEOPLE.
AND IT'S SUSTAINABLE.
>> MY CONCERN IS THAT THE
PRECEDENT WILL BE THAT IT WILL
BE OKAY THEN TO GO INTO OTHER
PARKS AND WE'LL HAVE LESS AND
LESS WILDERNESS.
>> Reporter: THE BATTLE
INTENSIFIED RECENTLY, WHEN
REPUBLICAN SENATOR DAVID VITTER
OF LOUISIANA INCLUDED A
PROVISION TO EXTEND TO OYSTER
FARM'S LEASE FOR AT LEAST TEN
YEARS IN A BILL PRIMARILY
DESIGNED TO EXPEDITE THE
KEYSTONE XL PIPELINE AND OIL AND
GAS DEVELOPMENT IN ALASKA.
IN MARIN COUNTY, THE
ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION COMMITTEE
IS LEADING THE CHARGE TO GET RID
OF THE OYSTER OPERATION.
>> YOU CAN SEE ALL THESE OUTFLOW
TUBES.
THEY JUST HAD A CEASE AND DESIST
ORDER PLACED ON THEM BY THE
CALIFORNIA COASTAL COMMISSION.
>> Reporter: AMY TRAINER, THE
COMMITTEE'S EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR,
IS WORKING WITH NEAL DESAI OF
THE NATIONAL PARKS CONSERVATION
ASSOCIATION TO CONVINCE THE
COURTS AND THE PUBLIC THAT THE
OYSTER FARM DOESN'T BELONG IN A
WILDERNESS AREA.
THEY SAY, DRAKES BAY OYSTER
COMPANY HAS DESPOILED THE
ESTUARY.
>> THEY HAVE GROWN NON NATIVE
SPECIES, THEY HAVE DUMPED
THOUSAND OF PIECES OF PLASTIC
INTO OUR MARINE WATERS WHICH CAN
POTENTIALLY HARM SEABIRDS AND
MARINE MAMMALS.
IT'S POLLUTED OUR NATIONAL
SEASHORE BEACHES.
YOU SEE THE INVASIVE SPECIES
CALLED MARINE VOMIT GROWING ALL
OVER THEIR OYSTERS.
YOU SEE THEIR MOTOBOATS ZOOMING
BY.
>> Reporter: LUNNY AND HIS
DEFENDERS SAY THE OPERATION HAS
NOT HURT THE ENVIRONMENT.
BOTH SIDES QUOTE STUDIES
SUPPORTING THEIR POINT OF VIEW.
>> IT'S BEEN STUDIED BY THE
NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES;
THEY HAVE FOUND NO SERIOUS
EFFECTS; WE ARE NOT LOSING
MARINE DEBRIS; WE'RE ACTUALLY
CLEANING IT UP.
>> Reporter: IN FACT, THE
NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES
COMPLAINED THERE WASN'T ENOUGH
DATA TO DETERMINE WHETHER THE
OYSTER OPERATION WAS HARMING THE
WATERWAY.
BUT THAT'S ONLY PART OF THE
ISSUE, SAYS FORMER INTERIOR
OFFICIAL STRICKLAND.
>> I THINK THE ESTIQUON NOW IS
WHO'S LOOKING OUT FOR THE
AMERICAN TAXPAYER?
AND WHO GETS TO PROFIT FROM A
FAVORABLE LEASE ARRANGEMENT WITH
THE UNITED STATES?
ONE FAMILY?
WHAT'S THE PARTICULAR EQUITY IN
THAT?
>> Reporter: A HEARING IN
FEDERAL APPEALS COURT ON WHETHER
DRAKES BAY OYSTERS SHOULD CLOSE
IS SCHEDULED FOR MID MAY.
>> Ifill: TODAY MARKS THE SECOND
ANNIVERSARY OF THE RAID THAT
KILLED OSAMA BIN LADEN.
TONIGHT, WE BRING YOU THE
PREVIOUSLY UNKNOWN STORY OF THE
SISTERHOOD OF C.I.A. ANALYSTS
WHO CHASED THE AL QAEDA LEADER.
MARGARET WARNER REPORTS.
>> Warner: IT WAS THE NEWS MOST
AMERICANS HAD WAITED NEARLY A
DECADE TO HEAR
>> TODAY, AT MY DIRECTION, THE
AFTER A FIREFIGHT, THEY KILLED
OSAMA BIN LADEN AND TOOK CUSTODY
OF HIS BODY.
>> Warner: BUT FOR MANY OF THE
PEOPLE WHO'D HELPED FIND OSAMA
BIN LADEN, THEIR WORK HAD
STARTED NEARLY TWO DECADES
EARLIER, LONG BEFORE E MOTHST-
WANTED MAN ON EARTH HAD EARNED
HIS INFAMY.
THEIR STORY OF THE C.I.A.
ANALYSTS AND OFFICERS WHO'D
TRACKED DOWN THE AL QAEDA CHIEF
IS TOLD IN THE DOCUMENTARY HBO
FILM "MANHUNT", DEBUTING
TONIGHT.
IT'S BASED ON THE BOOK BY CNN'S
PETER BERGEN.
>> IN 1997 OSA BAMIN LADEN HAD
DECLARED WAR ON THE UNITED
STATES AND NO ONE WAS PAYING
ATTENTION.
>> THERE WAS JUST WARNING AFTER
WARNING.
WE KNEW SOMETHING HUGE WAS GOING
TO HAPPEN.
>> Warner: BUT LONG BEFORE THAT
SEPTEMBER DAY, THEIR CHASE BEGAN
IN A NEAR-TOTAL INFORMATION
VACUUM.
>> WELL WE CERTAINLY DIDN'T KNOW
THAT AL QAEDA EXISTED.
WE DIDN'T KNOW THERE WAS A
TERRORIST ORGANIZATION.
WE KNEW THERE WAS A VERY WEALTHY
>> Warner: THE GROUP TRACKING
THE ELUSIVE SAUDI MILITANT WAS
KNOWN AS ALEC STATION, AND WAS
NOVEL IN ITS APPROACH.
>> THE UNIQUE THING ABOUT ALEC
STATION WAS THE FUSION OF
ANALYSIS AND OPERATIONS.
WE PUSHED THE ANALYSTS AND THE
>> Warner: THE ANALYTICAL TEAM
AT C.I.A. WAS COMPRISED MOSTLY
OF WOMEN; BEFORE 9/11 IT WAS NOT
A PRIME ASSIGNMENT.
CINDY STORER WAS AN ANALYST,
PART OF WHAT WAS CALLED "THE
SISTERHOOD."
>> I WAS COUNSELED ONCE IN A
PERFORMANCE REVIEW THAT I WAS
SPENDING TOO MUCH TIME WORKING
ON BIN LADEN.
THEY SAID WE WERE OBSESSED
CRUSADERS, OVERLY EMOTIONAL,
USING THOSE WOMEN STEREOTYPES.
>> Warner: NADA BAKOS FOLLOWED
STORER ON THE MOSTLY FEMALE
TEAM.
>> WE PICKED UP THAT END OF THE
SPEAR, WHERE SOME OF THE
OPERATIONS OFFICERS TENDED TO BE
MEN.
AND THIS IS THE PLACE WHERE
>> Warner: AFTER 9/11, THE TEMPO
OF OPERATIONS SHIFTED, TO
HUNTING AL QAEDA FIGURES IN
AFGHANISTAN, IRAQ AND ELSEWHERE.
MANY ANALYSTS MOVED INTO NEW
JOBS AS TARGETERS.
NADA BAKOS WAS AMONG THEM,
FORWARD DEPLOYED IN IRAQ TO
TRACK ABU MUSAB AL ZARQAWI.
SHE ALSO TARGETED A KEY AL QAEDA
EMISSARY WHO, AFTER CAPTURE,
GAVE UP THE RIER WHO EVENTUALLY
LED THE U.S. TO BIN LADEN'S DOOR
TWO YEARS AGO TODAY.
>> Warner: JOINING ME NOW TO
DISCUSS THE HUNT NOR BIN LADEN
AND AL QAEDA I'M JOINED BY TWO
MEMBERS OF SO CALLED
"SISTERHOOD" OF C.I.A. ANALYSTS
WHO APPEAR IN THE FILM "MANHUNT"
AND WHOSE WORK WAS SO CRUCIAL TO
THE EFFORT.
CINDY STORER AND NADA BAKE YOAS.
LIKE MOST C.I.A. ANALYSTS YOU
WORKED IN SECRET.
YOUR IDENTITIES HAVE BEEN KEPT
SECRET ALL THESE YEARS.
WHY DID YOU DECIDE TO SPEAK TO
OPENLY THROUGH THIS FILM?
NADA?
>> I WANTED TO TELL THE
FIRST-HAND ACCOUNT STORY FOR
ESSENTIALLY A LOT OF PEOPLE
STILL THERE IN ADDITION TO MY
FORMER COLLEAGUES.
I THOUGHT IT WAS A GOOD
OPPORTUNITY TO BE ABLE TO GIVE
THE VIEWER A SENSE OF WHAT
NATIONAL SECURITY IS LIKE AND
HOW THE C.I.A. WORKS.
>> Warner: CINDY, WHAT ABOUT
YOU?
>> MY MOTIVATIONS WERE VERY
SIMION A I REALLY
HOPED IT WOULD HELP PEOPLE
UNDERSTAND WHAT OUR COLLEAGUES
ARE DOING AND THEY WOULDN'T BE
FACELESS COLLEAGUES IN THE
BUREAUCRACY THAT YOU COULD PUT
BLAME ON FOR WHATEVER IS WRONG.
>> Warner: THIS WAS INFORMALLY
YOUR UNIT WAS KNOWN AS THE
SISTERHOOD.
DO YOU THINK THERE'S SOMETHING
DIFFERENT ABOUT WOMEN ANALYSTS?
>> IT'S FUNNY BECAUSE I HONESTLY
DON'T KNOW.
I'VE GONE THROUGH SO MANY
THEORIES WITH SO MANY PEOPLE.
FOR ME PERSONALLY I NEVER
THOUGHT OF MYSELF AS A WOMAN
EXCEPT WHEN HE WE WERE LUMPED
TOGETHER BY PEOPLE TRYING TO
CRITICIZE THE PROGRAM.
OTHER THAN THAT I WAS AN ANALYST
DOING WHAT NEEDED TO BE DONE.
>> WHAT WAS THE HARDEST THING.
LET'S GO BACK TO THE 90s.
WHEN YOU WERE TRYING TO PIECE
TOGETHER THE PUZZLE THAT WAS AL
QAEDA, THE ORGANIZATION WHAT WAS
THE BIGGEST CHALLENGE IN
RECOGNIZING AND IDENTIFYING WHAT
LOOKED LIKE SEPARATE ATTACKS
AROUND THE WORLD FROM EAST
AFRICA BOMBINGS TO THE COLE WERE
THE WORK OF ONE ORGANIZATION AND
THE NAME WAS AL QAEDA AND OSAMA
BIN LADEN WAS THE HEAD OF IT?
>> THERE'S THE TECHNICALLY
DIFFICULT IF IS, IF WILL YOU,
OF -- IF YOU WILL, OF TRYING TO
GO THROUGH THE MOUNDS OF BITS OF
INFORMATION AND MAKE IT -- SEE
IF THERE'S A PICTURE THERE.
TO DO IT YOU HAVE TO HAVE
SEVERAL MODELS IN YOUR HEAD
ABOUT HOW ORGANIZATIONS LIKE
LIKE HOW THEY WORK.
HOW THEY MIGHT NOT WORK.
WHAT COULD IT BE BESIDE A
ORGANIZATION AND YOU ARE
CONSTANTLY TESTING
ORGANIZATION YOU GET AGAINST THE
IDEAS IN YOUR HEAD AND THEN IT'S
SOMETHING YOU RECOGNIZE OR
SOMETHING YOU DON'T.
>> HOW WAS THE WORK THAT THIS
UNIT DID, VIEWED, LET'S SAY
BEFORE 9/11 WITHIN THE AGENCY?
>> YOU KNOW, WHEN I JOINED IN
2000 I WAS NOT IN THE
COUNTERTERRORISM CENTER BUT MY
UNDERSTANDING AND CINDY, YOU
WEIGH IN ON THIS, IS THAT, YOU
KNOW COUNTER TERRORISM WORK
WASN'T INITIALLY VIEWED AS
IMPORTANT AS SOME OF THE
TRADITIONAL ANALYTICAL WORK.
>> MOST ANALYSTS IN THE AGENCY
IT'S SCHOLARLY REALLY.
IT'S A COMBINATION BETWEEN
SCHOLARSHIP AND JOURNALISM, A
LOT OF JOB IS, AND DOING
COUNTERTERRORISM IS A LITTLE BIT
DIFFERENT.
NOT THAT THEY YOU ARE NOT ACHIEG
THE SCHOLARSHIP ON THE ISSUES
YOU ABOUT DIGGING DOWN TO THE
DETAILS MOST PEOPLE DON'T HAVE
TO WORRY ABOUT.
IF YOU ARE WORKING A COUNTRY YOU
KNOW THE WIRING DIAGRAM, HOW THE
STATE IS ORGANIZE EVEN IF YOU
HAVE TO FIGURE OUT WHO HAS THE
POWER WELL.
A GROUP LIKE THIS WE HAD TO
FIGURE OUT THEY EXISTED.
DOING THAT KIND OF DETAILED
WORKED WAS LOOKED DOWN UPON.
>> Warner: THEN IN 2001, YOUR
UNIT AND THE C.I.A. IN GENERAL
WAS WARPING THE ADMINISTRATION,
THE -- WARNING THE
ADMINISTRATION, THE REST OF THE
GOVERNMENT THAT SOMETHING BIG
WAS COMING AND YET 9/11
HAPPENED.
WHEN THAT HAPPENED DID YOU BLAME
YOURSELVES OR WERE YOU ANGRY AT
THE CRITICISM THAT IT WAS DUE TO
AN INTELLIGENCE FAILURE?
>> YOU CAN'T HELP BUT FEEL
GUILTY AND BLAME YOURSELF EVEN
IF THERE REALLY IS NOTHING MORE
YOU COULD HAVE DONE.
IT'S JUST HUMAN NATURE.
YES, IT WAS DIFFICULT FOR
EVERYONE BLAMING YOU FOR
SOMETHING YOU TRIED SO HARD TO
PREVENT.
>> Warner: NADA, WHAT WOULD
YOU ADD TO THAT?
>> FOR THE LARGE PART EVERYBODY
TAKES THEIR JOB SERIOUSLY.
THAT SENSE OF RESPONSIBILITY IS
NOT LOST ON THE PEOPLE WHO DO
THAT JOB.
TO HAVE TO POINT OUT THAT THERE
WAS MAYBE SOME ISSUES LEADING UP
TO 9/11 OR POINTSTAINLY PEOPLE K
UNDERSTOOD EXACTLY WHAT HAD
HAPPENED.
>> Warner: AFTER 9/11, THE
UNITS AND -- EXPANDED BUT REALLY
SHIFTED TO FOCUSING ON TARGETING
INDIVIDUALS FOR KILL OR CAPTURE.
HOW BIG A SHIFT WAS THAT?
>> YOU KNOW, FROM MY
PERSPECTIVE, IT WAS PRETTY
DRAMATIC I WENT FROM A
TRADITIONAL ANALYTICAL ROLE AND
MOVED TO THE OPERATIONS SIDE.
EVEN INFORMALLY THERE WERE
OBVIOUSLY PEOPLE DOING THAT
TARGETING WORK.
>> Warner: WHEN TARGETING, YOU
ARE TARGETING SOMEONE TO BE CAPT
TIEWRND INTERROGATED OR KILLED.
WHAT KIND OF A MORAL DILEMMA DID
THAT POSE FOR YOU?
YOU TALKED ABOUT IT IN THE FILM
A LITTLE.
>> I DO.
WHEN YOU -- YOU ARE EVALUATING
THE PROBLEM.
IF IT'S DETERMINED THAT THIS
PERSON OR INDIVIDUAL IS DOING
SOMETHING THAT IS HARMING THE
UNITED STATES NATIONAL SECURITY
INTEREST OR DOING SOMETHING
WITHIN THE COUNTRY AND IN THIS
CASE IT WAS A WAR THEATER INSIDE
OF IRAQ, IT'S -- I THINK THE
ONUS IS UPON US TO BE ABLE TO
CONTROL THE SITUATION.
AND THE ONLY WAY TO DO THAT IS
TO CAPTURE OR KILL AN
INDIVIDUAL, THEN I THINK IT'S
WARRANTED.
>> Warner: AFTER DECADES
WORKING ON THIS, BIN LADEN IS
DEAD, A LOT OF AL QAEDA SENIOR
LEADERSHIP IS DEAD.
HOW CONFIDENT ARE EACH OF YOU
THAT THE UNITED STATES IS GOING
TO BE ABLE TO MANAGE THIS
ONGOING THREAT IN THE DECADES TO
COME?
CINDY?
>> THAT'S A HARD QUESTION
BECAUSE OBVIOUSLY YOU KNOW AS WE
GO TO THE FUTURE DECADES WE'RE
NOT JUST LOOKING AT THIS THREAT.
THERE'S SOMETHING NEW COMING
DOWN THE LINE.
IT'S PROBABLY GOING TO LOOK
DIFFERENT.
AS WE ALWAYS DO WE FOCUS ON THE
CURRENT, THE CURRENT WAR WHICH
WE HAVE TO DO.
I'M ALWAYS CONCERNED THAT WE'RE
NOT GOING TO LISTEN TO THE NEXT
PEOPLE STANDING AND JUMPING UP
AND DOWN WITH THEIR HAIR ON FIRE
TRYING TO GET PEOPLE'S ATTENTION
TO SOMETHING NEW AND DIFFERENT.
>> Warner: NADA BAKOS AND
CINDY STORER THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: ONLINE, MARGARET
COMPARES "MANHUNT" WITH SOME OF
THE OTHER RECENT RETELLINGS OF
THE HUNT FOR BIN LADEN.
FIND THAT ON OUR WORLD PAGE.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY:
THREE ADDITIONAL MEN WERE
ARRESTED IN CONNECTION WITH THE
BOSTON BOMBINGS, CHARGED WITH
DISPOSING OF EVIDENCE OR LYING
TO INVESTIGATORS, AFTER THE
FATAL BLASTS.
AND THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE
PROTESTED IN EUROPEAN CAPITALS
AGAINST AUSTERITY MEASURES ON
THIS MAY DAY.
>> Ifill: ONLINE: WHY
ANTARCTICA'S RESPONSE TO CLIMATE
CHANGE HAS PUZZLED SCIENTISTS.
HARI SREENIVASAN HAS MORE.
>> Sreenivasan: ON SCIENCE
WEDNESDAY, WE LOOK AT WHY
DIFFERENT REGIONS OF ANTARCTICA
ARE MELTING FASTER WHILE OTHERS
ARE HOLDING STEADY.
AND ON ART BEAT-- A STORY OF
LOVE, DEVOTION, SEPARATION AND
REUNION-- ALL BETWEEN A CAT AND
ITS HUMAN OWNERS.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR
WEBSITE newshour.pbs.org.
GWEN?
>> Ifill: AND THAT'S THE
"NEWSHOUR" FOR TONIGHT.
ON THURSDAY, WE'LL EXAMINE THE
BOOK, "THE NEW DIGITAL AGE" WITH
IT'S AUTHORS: GOOGLE'S ERIC
SCHMIDT AND JARED COHEN.
I'M GWEN IFILL
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
THANK YOU AND GOOD NIGHT.